Embarking on a new path in life is never easy, and while it is often easier to maintain the status quo, I was left feeling unfulfilled. While I have learned a lot during my career in digital marketing, I’ve also learned that it isn’t a career that best utilizes my ability to think outside the box, and my drive to actively seek new challenges.  As I began exploring my professional options, I quickly realized that moving to another digital marketing firm would be perpetuating the situation that has left me frustrated and yearning for more challenge and creativity. I realize I have to follow my instincts and break into a new area of thinking; the area of Design and Technology. I want to be a part of maker culture. I want to command a Kinect with code; play a game of my own creation; develop an application to help me find my favorite whiskeys. The options are infinite, and MFADT will enable me to develop the skills I need to achieve my goals and pursue a dynamic, fulfilling professional life. 

I love math and science and this passion shaped my college education.  During my undergraduate studies at Kenyon College, I majored in math and minored in physics, which broadened my problem solving creativity and allowed me to tackle intimidating problems. I learned to be fluid in my methods of thinking since most problems would require multiple angles of approach. This way of thinking helped me reach the point where I very rarely reached a logical dead end. If my first strategy failed, I would form a new one.

After college, I followed my math background down an unexpected path. When I first arrived in New York I began working at a moving company. I quickly began driving trucks and running a moving team, which was hilariously complicated at times. I soon discovered that my math skills helped me to look at the day-to-day challenges of a mover as a big geometry problem. As I tapped into my spatial visualization skills, I became a master of angling, pirouetting, and squeezing the largest of couches through the tightest hallways and stairwells. I learned how to problem solve in a more dynamic environment that required quick thinking and coming up with unorthodox solutions to problems you cannot plan for; something that has proven valuable while learning to code, as well.

When I landed my first job in digital marketing, I sharpened my data analysis skills, especially with large data sets. It was at my first marketing job that I learned SQL, which I found invaluable for storing and accessing campaign data. I also learned was how to manage and communicate with clients of many different backgrounds and personalities, some of which, if I am being honest, clashed with my own. Navigating even the thorniest relationships is essential in marketing and translates to all fields that involve group projects. Developing these skills allowed me to move on to my most recent job as the Director of Optimization. While digital marketing is not the long-term field for me, it has provided me with invaluable skills to be successful in Design Technology.

I am interested in pursuing creative, algorithmic coding in both C++ and web-based applications. I am extremely interested in physical computing as well, especially the use of arduinos, Kinects and other devices to map user movement as the user interacts with a program. I have been very impressed with the projects that manipulate tones and volumes of music based off user movement, such as Norihito Yuki's project from Sven's Fly on the Wall class. Truly, it's my interaction with students that made me realize how exciting coding can be.

So why Parsons? The faculty, the students, and the mindset. The professors I have met have impressed me both with how they communicate complex ideas in an approachable way, and how they inspire the students to come up with interesting and provocative projects.  This past December I sat in on the final presentations for the Algorithmic Animation class, and it was exciting to see such interactive, entertaining programs. The opportunity to work with such driven and creative people excites me, and will allow me the opportunity to achieve new heights of personal and professional satisfaction.

The students I have met are endlessly curious and open. The projects I have seen are unique and compelling. It is obvious to me that students are allowed great latitude in both project ideas and execution, and that there are no boundaries on creativity. I also greatly respect MFADT's proactive approach to teaching and involving the greater community.  I attended two Dorkshops and not only was warmly welcomed by current students, but had more fun in a classroom than I can ever remember having.

This is the environment I yearn for, and it is my dream to carry this way of thinking into how I shape my professional career. I want to take on large and complicated tasks that will push my thinking to the limit. I know I cannot reach my full potential working in a rigid and repetitive environment. I want to be in a position where I am creating new applications. To fully realize these goals I need to develop the technical and creative skills necessary for such work, and I believe your program will provide the opportunity to fulfill all my aspirations. I would relish the opportunity to join the class of 2016 and look forward to hearing from you.

